# Triangle-Counting-Research

Identifying and counting triangles is a crucial metric often used in large social networks for data analysis, clustering coefficient calculations, and community detection. It is a large issue in the data science industry because exisiting algorithms are not very scalable and optimal (in regards to both time and space complexity. I assisted Dr. David Bader's lab group at NJIT’s Institute for Data Science on this research. I also helped develop a novel parallel and sequential triangle counting, cover-edge set based algorithm (https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10363465). This algorithm uses BFS to categorize edges as either tree (edges traversed during BFS), horizontal (egdes with nodes on the same level), or strut edges (non tree edges with nodes on adjacent levels). Then, the cover-edge set is created by accumulating all the horizontal edges (since every triangle must have at least one horizontal edge). For each horizontal edge, an intersection is performed between each node's neighbor lists and each mutual neighbor indicates a new triangle. There is also an ordering amongst vertices to ensure that each triangle is only counted once. By only looking at horizontal edges, the amount of computational overhead is substantially reduced. The algorithm achieves an overall time complexity of O(n*d) and space complexity of O(m+n), where m represents the number of edges, n represents the number of vertices, and d denotes the maximum degree of any vertex. When using massive-scale Graph500 graphs, the parallel algorithm reduces communication on a scale 36 graph by 1156x and on a scale 42 graph by 2368x. 
